>> Steve Kinney: We got a chance to
just play around with Redux by itself.
And Redux is again, separate from React.
You can use it on the server,
you can use it in any framework you want.
It's just a convenient way to
manage some form of state like in
JavaScript agnostically, right?
But I think it's be more useful rather
than kind of just looking at the methods
to actually see it with a user interface.
So [INAUDIBLE] I'm gonna basically take
a very simple counter where we can see it
in isolation.
I'll have the ability to increment,
you'll implement the ability to decrement.
We'll kinda see it there.
And then we'll start building a little bit
more complicated application once we've
kind of just looked at some
of the concepts in isolation.
After we've coded a little bit,
then I'll kind of explain the concepts
a little bit more deeply.
All right, so
here we've got a very simple counter.
And this is, it doesn't do anything,
it doesn't have any state.
And we don't need it to have any state.
We have two libraries
that we're going to use.
We're going to need to use Redux, right?
And then there is a library,
we saw it before, we have dispatch,
we could say on component did mount,
subscribe and set state in this component,
so on and so forth.
We could theoretically just use Redux and
React and wire it all up ourselves.
But we could also just use the library,
which is very conveniently
called React-Redux.
Again, it is not unlike some of
those functions we saw earlier.
It does what it says on the tin.
>> Steve Kinney: Import redux from Redux.
We'll probably actually
pull off createStore,
which is really the only one we
need right now, in a second.
And React-Redux actually only has two
methods that it provides for
the most part.
Connect and Provider.
Provider, if you've ever used
like the Context API before,
it's just basically a way to pass the kind
of reference to the store that we're
going to create to your React application.
React-Redux, cool.
And here we'll just grab createStore for
now.
>> Steve Kinney: All right.
We're going to do this all in this file,
right.
One of the one of the criticisms of Redux
is that there is a lot of boilerplate,
right?
And usually it involves
like making many files.
Now, in a decent sized application,
like, that is smart, right.
For any of the complaints about
there being too much boilerplate,
to be honest, you are generally creating
those files at the beginning of a project,
and then you are living with that code
base for the next several years, right?
It's not too terrible, right.
And once you kind of get into the flow,
it's not too bad.
But for now, just to kind of
see everything in one place,
we're gonna do everything
in this index.js.
When we get to a more
complicated application,
we'll begin to pull everything out.
All right, cool.
So we've got the ability
to create a store.
We know that we need to have a reducer,
but we also know that reducers
are just kind of normal functions.
So I'll start with my reducer.
And that's gonna take the state of
the world and the action again.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll make like
an initial state object up here so
I don't have to put in the function.
And we'll say like,
count is 0, right?
And so we'll make a reducer.
Default set initial state.
All right, so now,
things are going to happen in here.
And no matter what,
you wanna make sure you return some state
if everything falls through, right?
The reason we return state at the end is,
as I mentioned earlier,
every action will go
through every reducer.
There's really only one reducer,
but the combined reducers.
So, if a given reducer does not
care about an action, cool,
just return that same piece of
the tree that we had before.
Like, totally fine, not every reducer's
gonna care about every action.
But we do need to make sure
that as it flows through,
that then we're then returning
the same object out.
All right, neat.
So there's two ways to do this.
A lot of times you'll
see switch statements,
I don't like switch statements.
That's just a personal preference.
They're like harder for me to refactor.
I don't know.
So, what I'll do is usually just have
a if the action type is increment.
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
we will then return.
>> Steve Kinney: Plus one right?
And this will work for us for now.
We'll have to get a little bit more
complicated with some of that stuff we saw
at the beginning of this workshop,
when we have multiple things going on.
Because it's like, yeah,
I'm like replacing the only object,
the only property on this object.
When we get to the point where I'm trying
to, I have a much more complicated tree,
we're gonna have to spreading stuff and
figuring out immutability.
But let's kick that down the curve for
a little bit and
just kind of see this all together, right.
So if the action is the type increment,
then what we'll do is we'll
return state.count + 1.
Another pattern that you'll
see is this string is yet
another opportunity for
you to mistype something, right.
If you all of a sudden,
it's like increment, right,
like it's basically,
that conditional is never gonna get hit,
your state is never going to change,
you're not going to get an error.
And you're basically gonna have to go
through the application looking for
what happened, again,
with a trail of console logs in your wake.
So that's what you'll see is these
getting pulled out into constants.
Like I literally, as I was talking,
left it misspelled.
[LAUGH] I literally just committed
the mistake that I was talking about.
So you'll see something along these lines.
And then we'll use this
constant without the quotes.
And why this is nice is that,
should you misspell it now,
your code will blow up, right?
It will not make it through CI,
it will not go to production, right?
Sometimes code blowing up is a good thing,
right?
So cool.
We've got our reducer here as well,
we've got our constant.
If we wanted to, we could also make
an action creator here, right?
So we could say const.
>> Steve Kinney: incrementValue.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll make
an action of the type increment.
That's really all we need, right?
Before, we were actually
passing a payload,
this is a relatively simple version.
I just gotta be sure that I'm
actually returning an object, cool.
And now we can call this and
we're gonna get our object created.
Now, it could take arguments and
add it to the payload.
We'll see all of that in a little bit.
But let's look at stuff
in isolation first.
So we have the ability to
create one of these actions.
We have the ability to modify the state or
return new state based on that action.
We do need to go ahead and
create a store, right.
So we'll say const store
is createStore and
we hand it that reducer, right.
So now we've got,
that is our Redux implementation, right?
We could theoretically grab that store and
we could go ahead and
dispatch a bunch of increment value
actions.w That is Redux, right?
We'll get more nuanced and
more complicated, but that is it.